Good afternoon, everybody.
My name is Rob Neville,
and I'm the engineering manager
for Network Service Location for
both Macintosh 9 and Macintosh 10.
Today, we're going to be talking
a little bit about both.
Primarily, we're going to be talking
about where we're going with
Network Service Location on 10,
but we'll also take questions
if you have them on Mac OS 9
as well in that implementation.
As I said, my name is Rob Neville.
We're going to be joined by
Kevin Arnold and Al Begley
for Q&A and for a demo,
which we'll have later.
Network Services Location,
this is the third year at WWDC where
we've had a session on NSL.
Basically,
NSL started as a way for my group,
which at the time was responsible
for developing personal
web sharing on Mac OS 9,
to allow users to actually
find the web server.
The initial feedback we got when
we put out personal web sharing was
that people couldn't find the server.
And in addition,
what we found as a corporation
was that people were starting
to move away from traditional
Apple Talk services and wanted the same
type of services over TCP/IP networks.
So our group came up with a solution,
and that solution turned into NSL.
NSL has been shipping on Mac OS 9,
and it was shipping on Mac OS 8.
It's also shipping as part of Mac OS X.
It's on the CD.
The SDK is in the developer's kit,
and you can make calls to
it both from Carbon and from
the lower foundation levels.
It's not called from the Finder,
though we will be demoing
it from the Finder today.
And why we're having this
particular session as opposed to,
you know, just what you heard
last year is that NSL,
as we move forward into X,
is going to be the way
The Choser as such,
or the legacy Mac OS 9 implementations
of how you find services,
changes in Mac OS X.
As services move onto,
and there are more services
available on TCP/IP,
how you locate those services
on a dynamic network,
such as DHCP,
NSL plays a much more critical
role in how you're going
to locate those services.
So NSL is the way that
you as service providers,
as people writing services,
or people writing solutions which
contact servers and services on the net,
can use to find those services.
In addition,
if there are those of you who are
from corporate infrastructures,
it will assist you, perhaps,
in this presentation,
to think about how you want
to structure your network.
Because today,
what we'll talk about is not only
Mac OS 9 and Mac OS X and NSL in
those particular environments,
but what we've learned in the last two
years from using and developing NSL.
Briefly, NSL is part of Mac OS 9.
You don't really see the NSL user
interface that often in Mac OS 9,
but the primary part of Mac OS 9 where
NSL is called is the network browser.
NSL is not the network browser.
The network browser is an application
which makes low-level NSL calls
to get the raw data that it then
presents in a user interface.
In addition, in Mac OS 9,
we have a user interface library which
puts up a UI which allows applications,
you all,
to call for your specific service.
An example of this,
if you wish to use it in Mac OS 9,
is in AppleScript.
And you can call,
choose URL from inside an AppleScript,
and you'll see what
AppleScript does to access NSL.
And you'll see a long list of a variety
of services that AppleScript knows about.
And where we're going with
this is we wanted NSL to be
sort of like the standard file,
the same analogy as standard file,
for finding your services on the network.
And so an application can
call our user interface,
which was the feedback we
got after the first year,
For a particular service,
remote administration,
which is part of Apple Share IP 6.3,
is one of the services which
uses NSL to find its remote
administration servers on the network.
We're also part of Mac OS X.
And as Mac OS X matures over
the next months and years,
we've structured some changes
into NSL that will facilitate a
lower-level functionality and a
lower-level system-wide calling of NSL.
So what we've learned.
Well, as I said, one of the first things
that we've learned is that
network browser is not NSL,
and that though the user
experience is very similar,
There are some significant differences.
For example, and we'll show in the demo,
in network browser,
you get all the services that
Network Browser Knows About.
You get file, you get browsing services,
you get FTP,
and you get a pretty long list.
In our user interface,
the data type that you're looking for,
actually the URL type
that you're looking for,
is how we sort that data.
You can choose to show
all the data all at once,
or you can choose to segment it.
And one of the things that we
found is that when we rolled
out Mac OS 9 internal to Apple,
and we had NSL and people started
using the network browser,
without a network infrastructure,
what you have is pretty much a flat
list of every server on your network.
If people put all of their services in
one particular what we call neighborhood,
then what you have is all
the servers in one area.
This is sort of like what it would
be if all of the addresses for the
Santa Clara Valley were El Camino.
That was the only street name you had,
so that every particular business
would have an El Camino address.
Well, that would perhaps make it very
difficult to find a particular service.
But if you divide up the
network infrastructure,
you separate out various neighborhoods,
much analogous to Apple Talk zones,
what you can find is that users are able
to utilize your services and to navigate
to find your services much more easily.
Another thing we found,
and we found this from customers,
is that though we provide
in Mac OS 9 four plug-ins,
four different ways for
finding URLs on the network,
Apple Talk, DNS, LDAP, and SLP,
your customers may not
need to use all of those.
For example, your customers may have
an LDAP infrastructure,
and it may be easier for them,
as we did at Apple,
to set up a web front end for users to
register a service in an LDAP directory
associated with their name.
So that then when I want
to look up somebody's web
server or their file server,
that person goes onto a web
page for your corporation,
loads that data into an LDAP directory,
and then they can find it that way.
They may not need AppleTalk.
They may want to turn AppleTalk off.
You can't be guaranteed that any of the
particular plug-ins will be available.
The other thing that we found as we
made the transition from Mac OS 9
to Mac OS X is that you all didn't
write any plug-ins on Mac OS 9.
It's been two years.
Maybe you've been doing other things.
Maybe you've had it right
there on the top of your list
to write a plug-in for NSL.
We don't think so.
For Mac OS X, we have a new technology
that's coming out,
and that's the Directory Services API.
So as a team,
what we did was we looked at how
are people going to find services?
How is that data going to be
stored out there in the network?
Well, we have our legacy AppleTalk data,
so we needed an MVP plugin.
People still wanted to be able to
find Apple Share servers out there,
personal file sharing, things like that.
We had SLP.
And SLP is very,
very good currently for small
businesses and work groups.
They want to just turn off Apple Talk.
There was a hole there,
and that was the fact that there aren't a
lot of directory agent servers out there.
As we talked about in an earlier
session on the Mac OS X server
software that's coming out in about
the same timeframe as Mac OS X,
we're going to be providing
an SLP directory agent,
which will facilitate your customers
in setting up an SLP network.
Then there was DNS,
and a lot of people aren't
using DNS as a data store,
but it's a more traditional mechanism
by which people resolve URLs.
In addition, as part of Mac OS X,
with the Bind 8.2 server
that we'll be providing,
the ability to do
registration to that server
comes to fruition.
So with the traditional bind for servers,
you didn't have the capability
of doing registrations.
It was a static list.
And we were finding that not a
lot of people were adopting that.
With 8.2,
you can have registration take place.
Whether or not the users of the bind
8.2 are going to allow that is going to
be up to the system's administrators.
So those are the three traditionals.
And on a Mac OS X, we had LDAP.
We had an LDAP library
that was part of Mac OS 9.
We wrote an LDAP plug-in to utilize
that sort of a proof of concept.
But in Mac OS X,
we have the Directory Services API.
So now if the data is not
stored in an LDAP directory,
it's stored in an Oracle database,
or it's stored in a
Novell network server,
or it's stored in a Windows 2000
machine using Active Directory,
we don't care.
And we don't have to write a
plug-in for each individual type of
directory store that's out there.
Using Directory Services plug-in,
when you write a plug-in
for Directory Services,
you're giving functionality
to NSL right off the bat.
So what we'll be providing in Mac OS X,
an NBP plug-in, an SLP plug-in,
We have a DNS plugin and a
Directory Services API plugin.
We have also taken the
APIs that allow you to write
plugins and made them private.
So there will not be in the
SDK anything in Mac OS X which will
facilitate you writing a plug-in.
If you have a particular need for a
plug-in to be written that can't be
handled in those four categories,
you need to let us know.
Because as of right now,
we don't see the need for
writing any more plug-ins to
this particular interface.
So, what you're hopefully going to
take out of this is why you should
use NSL in your applications,
why you should use NSL on your
servers and register with NSL.
Because NSL is going to be the way in
Mac OS X for your services and your
servers to be found on the network.
If you don't register,
services that come along
that take advantage of you,
that may want to connect
to your services,
won't be able to find
them on a TCP/IP network.
People are making the transition
from Apple Talk to TCP/IP.
Macintosh users are
making that transition.
In Mac OS 9,
when they took personal file sharing,
they allowed you to do that over TCP/IP.
They register with NSL so that
you can find this TCP/IP server
without having to know the address.
Now,
if that address happens to be something
that's changeable every time you boot
your machine on a network such as DHCP,
Then NSL becomes even more useful.
As we move away from static IP addresses,
if I have a server or a service that
doesn't have a static IP address,
the URL for that address may change
every time I boot that server.
If I have distributed applications
on desktops and I want to be able to
find those distributed applications
and the IP address is dynamic,
I'm going to need NSL to
be able to find those.
NSL, however, is just a mechanism
for finding the address
It's not LDAP.
It's not SLP.
It's not Directory Services.
If you have specific data
stored in those forms,
if you want to write an LDAP application,
You want to be able to
find a remote LDAP server.
Currently in Mac OS 9,
in Internet Config,
you put your LDAP server.
If I want to go out and find other
LDAP servers that are out there,
and I have an LDAP-specific application,
I can find those servers using NSL,
but then I want to move and
talk to the LDAP library to be
able to do LDAP kinds of things.
The same thing with SLP.
SLP, for example,
at some point in the future,
the trend is to put SLP into
the firmware of printers.
That would allow print architecture
to talk SLP directly to the
printers out there on the network.
Well, NSL will give you the address
of that particular printer,
but it won't give you any
more information than that.
This is a way to find the
services on the network.
In the same way that NBP and the
AppleTalk stack is just one layer.
It's just the way to locate
those services on the network.
NSL takes that to a level
where it's AppleTalk,
it's TCP/IP, you don't care.
You don't care where the data is stored.
You just want the address of the
service that you're connecting to.
But to do that, you as servers, writers,
and you as service and application
providers need to use NSL to find
those services on the network.
The desktop in Mac OS X,
and we'll be demoing
this in a little bit,
has a menu item that
is Connect to Server.
That interface may or may not change
between now and the final release.
I was up here last year.
We had a connect-to mechanism,
and that changed over the period of time.
That may change, but ostensibly,
what's happening in the Macintosh,
in the Mac OS X specifically,
is those services that allow
you to navigate through a
network and define your services
are going to be calling NSL.
And as those things get down lower and
lower and more invisible to the user,
The ability to find those services
is going to be through calling NSL.
Once the service, the finder for example,
locates a file system,
it will have to know what to do.
So where we are today.
We've got an SDK that's out there.
There are a few applications
outside of Apple that call NSL.
But we've got an SDK and NSL and Mac OS 9
and going forward is fully supported.
Some of the functionality in Mac OS 9,
specifically the SLP plugin,
and some of the new user interface,
is 9-specific.
So that if you have Macintosh
users who are using 8.0,
they also get NSL,
but they may not be able to see
all of the SLP services out there.
This is because the spec has
transitioned and changed over time.
In addition, we put in a user interface
that the users can call.
We added support into
AppleScript.
Going forward in Mac OS 9,
there'll be support
using Macintosh Manager.
To be able to locate client
machines on the network,
those client machines will
be registering using NSL.
So that if you're gearing a solution,
Be aware that we're supporting
back to Mac OS 9 only.
Don't think you're going to get all the
functionality all the way back to 8,
even though we shipped with 8.
That's an important distinction to make.
We have file sharing over TCP/IP,
and in a future release,
what we'll be having
is USB printer sharing.
We'll be using NSL to find
those computers that are
sharing their USB printers.
Part of Mac OS X.
When we made the transition to Mac OS X,
we had a CarbonLib inside of Mac OS X.
We made the transition over to Mac OS X.
The system people came
to us and they said,
"This is a neat way to find
services on the network.
We may want to drop this
down to the core of the OS."
So having all of this API up here
in Carbon may preclude us from
being able to do some of the lowest
level services and finding some
of those services on the network.
So what we decided to do in meeting
with those teams is the user interface,
the standard file analogy for getting a
URL using the UI we provide is in Carbon.
The manager is in the
core foundation libraries.
So if you need access to the data that
we use to put up in our user interface,
then you need to call the manager itself.
If all you need is the data that we
put up in the debugged interface,
and trust me,
we went through a long period of
debugging with the user interface so
that we're stripping out duplicates and
doing a lot of things inside the UI.
If you call our UI,
you don't have to debug
that user interface.
Hopefully,
it'll be as bug-free as we can make it.
You may, however,
still need access to the raw data.
We understand that.
You may want to put up something totally
different as far as a user interface.
That data is available to you,
but you're going to have to link
to the core foundation instead.
And as I said, we're providing MBP, DNS,
SLP, and a directory services plugin.
And if you need anything more,
let us know.
So as I said, NSL doesn't provide the
network infrastructure.
NSL probably, as it did at Apple,
will show a lack of a
network infrastructure,
especially on TCP/IP.
In a lot of companies,
the TCP/IP network is relatively flat.
And when you get a lot of
services out there that are
registering in yourcompany.com,
because that's their domain name for SLP,
suddenly you're going to get back
to the situation that AppleTalk was
in back in the mid-'80s,
where you've got one --
ostensibly one big zone.
And that may make it difficult.
You as application and service developers
can't do anything really about that.
Other than perhaps evangelize
to your customers that setting
up a logical division of
their network would be useful.
You also can tell your customers that
they don't all need all the plug-ins.
Particular customers that we've
talked to have made a transition
off of AppleTalk onto LDAP.
People are waiting with bated breath to
be able to implement our SLP directory
agent and use SLP as a mechanism for
finding their services on the network.
We're going to be providing
an SLP directory agent
in the Mac OS X server.
The functionality for registering and
creating a distributed SLP network
and networking infrastructure will
be available with a very nice user
interface in the Mac OS X server.
And as I said before,
we're providing all the
plugins we think you'll need.
This is the only way you're
going to be able to find
your services on the network,
other than hard coding in addresses,
or having your servers do multicasting.
To all your clients.
One of the other things that we found
is that traditionally what happened
was networking folks thought that
AppleTalk was a very chatty network.
And when you start putting
hundreds of machines,
TCP/IP machines,
on the network doing multicasting, wow,
suddenly TCP/IP is a very noisy protocol.
So here's an example of
the NSL architecture.
This isn't a typical
architecture slide you'll see.
What we want you to
get away from this is,
in Mac OS 9,
you're just linking to one library.
In Mac OS X, you may need to link to two.
And why would you link to two?
You'd link to two if
you're doing a front end,
point-to-point kind of solution.
If you just want to get the URL,
all you need to do is link to CarbonLib
and use the standard get URL call.
That will return you a URL.
If you wish to register
a server or a service,
chances are you're going to be linking
into the Core Foundation already.
At some point,
but to register and deregister,
you're going to not link
to Carbon for NSL services,
but you're going to link to the
core foundation for the NSL manager
to do a register and a deregister.
In addition, though it wasn't shown here,
if you want to get access
to the data that we use,
When we put up our user interface,
that data all comes
through the NSL Manager.
So if you want that data yourself,
link to the NSL Manager and
don't call our UI.
So, here's some of the services that
are going to be using Mac OS,
using NSL on Mac OS X.
Mac OS X Server Administration.
This is similar to the Apple Share 6.3.
Server Administration.
If you want to be able to
find an Apple share server,
or remotely administer a mail
server running on top of Mac OS X,
you're going to be using
NSL to find that service.
Mac OS X server is going
to be used to set up and
configure SLP kinds of networks.
List Services Apache and personal
file sharing on Mac OS X will
also be registering with NSL and
Apple Script will as well.
So we understand here that we're
the last session of the day,
and following this session,
there's a beer bust and there are...
Buses to take you over to Cupertino,
where you can meet face-to-face
with more of the engineers
and share the camaraderie that
only comes with imbibing and...
The goodwill of others.
So we'd like to get into the demo,
and to assist me in the demo,
I have Kevin Arnold,
who's the SLP and NSL engineer.
Hi.
So what we're going to show
you today is a post-DP4 finder
that's calling into NSL,
and to show you what the
UI looks like in NSL today,
if you were to call it,
that UI is probably going
to change before we ship.
Right now,
it's an aquified version of our
Platinum interface that we did on 9,
but we're going to do more things
to make it even more aqua-savvy.
So basically,
go to this connect to server that
you may have seen grayed out.
Bring it up.
So we,
basically we see a list of network,
or neighborhoods,
and we still have Apple Talk neighborhood
that will show either a list of
zones or your Apple Talk servers.
And then we also have other
neighborhoods that show up.
Now,
you might notice that there's some kind
of weird neighborhood names that show up.
And this is part of what Rob was
talking about with SLP and the kind of
chaos that can happen in your network
if it's not really structured right.
And that's something that we're working
on in 10 in conjunction with the server
to make it more administrator-specific,
a way to set this up and then
it'll all look nice and clean.
So if we go into a neighborhood
that we're interested in looking at,
you can see that up here we have
a pop-up button that shows what
kind of services that the calling
application is interested in seeing.
And the finder wants to know about
web servers or Apple share servers,
so we can switch between those
and see which ones are there.
[Transcript missing]
Basically, once you hit connect,
the UI basically returns
to the application.
We return that URL, and NSL is all done.
And at that point, it's up to the calling
application to handle that URL.
And in this case,
what the finder does is goes to mount.
My volume, or my network,
and I can go ahead and
select what volume I want,
and it'll show up right
there on the desktop.
So, that's basically it.
Thank you.
So the demo you saw is real similar
to what we've got in Mac OS 9.
If you call AppleScript for Mac OS 9,
you'll see that list is fairly long,
as Kevin was alluding to.
What shows up there and the
names that you wish to put there,
AFP servers may not make
any sense to anybody,
file servers might.
So you pass in the string that you want
to have displayed in the pop-up menu.
So we've got a feedback forum tomorrow.
We're sort of piggybacking off the server
services feedback forum rather than
having a separate NSL feedback forum.
That's tomorrow at 9:00.
Mac OS X Directory Services was
held this afternoon at 2:00.
Hopefully those of you interested
in that will have gone to that.
So, what I want you to take away from
here is that the chooser is no more.
If you start Mac OS X and you start,
I believe, Classic real fast,
you can see it briefly
under the Apple menu,
and you can go double-click on it,
no guarantees,
the way to find your services under
Mac OS X going forward on both
Apple Talk and TCP/IP networks
is going to be with NSL.
And NSL will give you the address of
the service that you're looking for.
You need to know what to do with that.
You need to know whether or
not it's a telephone number,
a street address, a file server,
web server.
We don't know.
We'll just tell you where it is.
And that we're providing the plugins
that we think you will all need.
And if you need more,
you need to let us know.
So with that, I'd like to take questions.